believe it or not I've never given a
maid of honor speech
so why am I creating a video to teach
you how to deliver a maid of honor
speech well first off one of the
Bridesmaids at my own wedding told me
that I should
but beyond that comment I personally
have witnessed many maid of honor
speeches and I've noted a few things as
the Observer of what has worked well and
ideas of how people maybe could have
taken those speeches to the next level
so take this video for what it's worth
with a grain of salt considering I have
never delivered a maid of honor speech
but I hope that my few pieces of advice
help you to deliver an amazing speech
that the bride is going to love hey
everyone my name is Wade Patterson and I
am passionate about impactful
communication and public speaking and if
this video is of any value to you I'd
encourage you to check out some of the
other videos on my channel consider
subscribing maybe leave a comment I love
knowing that people are getting some
form of value from these videos it
genuinely makes my day and my goal is to
create a lot more powerful useful
content in the future I I recently
posted a video on my YouTube channel
about how to deliver a best man speech
which is something I'm a little bit more
familiar with however many of the tips
in that video pertain to the maid of
honor speech as well and the one I'm
going to start with for your maid of
honor speech is the idea of building a
speech structure right from the start I
think the structure that is often
overdone is the chronological where
people take the audience through a
journey of all of the years together
consecutively and I've seen that just
that historical timeline type speech
happen many times and it can work well
but what I would encourage you to do is
be very creative with the type of speech
and speech structure that you do I've
seen many creative unique uses of this
and
it always works well when you're willing
to try something that's a little bit
different a little bit new don't be
scared to do that and as long as you
kind of keep some of the base things
that I'm going to talk about in this
video you should be fine with that said
maybe you're not familiar with any
speech structures so I will tell you my
favorite and that is the idea of
bringing a speech full circle
what do I mean by that
the concept of a full circle speech is
that you're opening so the first line
that you give in that speech are the
first couple of lines is going to be
your theme and the closing of the speech
no matter what happens in the middle
during the body of the speech the
closing of this speech is going to
duplicate or be very similar to what you
said in the opening as an example if you
are talking about your friend who is the
bride let's call her Susie I don't know
where these names come from but we're
going to go with Susie for this video
and let's say Susie is sweet she is a
genuinely sweet person perhaps you're
opening few lines touch on that you talk
about your friendship with Susie and
that's something you've always known
about her is that she is so incredibly
sweet then through the speeches
through the speech I should say the body
of the speech you can maybe tell some
personal stories that illustrate Susie's
sweetness but also I will add this in
don't be afraid to sprinkle humor in
there there's a lot of pressure on
wedding speeches and being able to use
humor is an incredibly effective tool
the audience really wants to laugh
people at weddings are in great moods
they're there to smile have a great time
and if you can get them laughing during
your speech that is mission accomplished
but you also want to balance that with
all of the nice things that of course
you're saying about Susie so you start
off with the opening Susie is sweet and
a few lines then you get into some
personal stories your friendship your
experience and then however you wrap
that speech up toward the end that
should remind people of that opening
sentence it should almost be the exact
same
and what that does to an audience is no
matter what Journey you've taken them on
throughout the speech they feel that the
whole time you have this perfectly
organized because you started here it
went around this journey of your speech
and it ended perfectly you wrapped a
nice bow on that speech speeches that
come full circle even if they go off in
Crazy directions are so powerful I've
seen time and time again speeches that
utilize that the audience at the end
they're clapping they're just like wow
that was an incredible speech so if you
can't incorporate a full circle speech I
really encourage you to try it out I
mentioned using humor in your speech and
one of the tips that I gave on the best
man video which is also the same for the
maid of honor speech is if you can use
humor early if you can get the audience
to laugh early on they're going to relax
and it's going to relax you as the
speaker if I had to put a formula on the
maid of honor speech in terms of the
balance of nice things that you say
about the Bride versus humorous things I
would put that on 75 and 25 so 75 nice
things 25 humorous things now of course
this completely depends maybe you're a
hilarious person and humor is your thing
then all the power to you I bet you're
going to crush it by making a really
funny speech this is just an overall
example from what I have seen has
typically worked well at weddings so
that's sort of the percentage that I
would put on it toward the end of the
speech before you get to the very end
that concluding full circle piece that I
was talking about ensure that you have
saved a little bit of time to talk about
the person that Susie is marrying if
we're breaking this down into
percentages I would say save 15 to 20
percent of your speech time wise to talk
about that individual and mostly say
nice things about that person if you
have a very short funny story
sure feel free to thread that in but
overall you want to talk about how
you're so excited that Susie is marrying
this amazing person maybe some of the
great traits you have come to learn
about that particular individual touch
on those things and then bring the
speech back to Susie to wrap it up or
Susie and her partner at the very end in
terms of timing how long your maid of
honor speech should be I always say five
to seven minutes is a great speech
length this is based on my long history
and Toastmasters and that is typically
how long speeches are but it's just that
magic number anything shorter than five
minutes feels too short anything longer
than seven minutes isn't quite long
enough five to seven minutes is the
sweet spot for a speech and please make
sure this is one of the most important
tips practice practice practice practice
go over it because the more you practice
the more you know that speech you're not
going to be worried about it on your
friend's big day you're going to be
excited for that person you're going to
enjoy the day and then toward the end of
the evening when you're about to give
your speech you know you can do it you
have the confidence you've gone through
it and if you can deliver that speech
without notes or minimal reference to
the notes that you have written down
that is the best because then you can
focus on things like making eye contact
with the audience you can focus on your
body language and those are traits that
the best speeches have in common one
final bonus tip for all of you made of
honors out there and I didn't give this
tip to the best men but here is what it
is
talk to the emcee in advance to know
where you were going to be on the agenda
agenda is that the right word the
program I guess of the reception because
that is going to put you at ease I have
seen many people who attend weddings who
are incredibly nervous when they are
going to be speaking are they going to
be the first speech are they going to be
the fifth speech the last speech talk to
the emcee find out and that particular
person DMC may ask you what your
preference is of the order if you go
ahead and ask that's not a guarantee but
regardless it's going to give you some
peace of mind knowing where your speech
Falls
as the night proceeds I hope this video
which I am hugely unqualified to do on
how to deliver a maid of honor speech
has been beneficial to you thank you to
my friend who encouraged me to put out
this video here it is I hope that it
added value to you and hey if you liked
this video consider subscribing to my
channel I do a lot of videos about
public speaking and communication in
general and I am always trying to
provide great content for you the
subscribers thank you so much for
watching this video and I will catch you
on the next one thank you so much for
watching this video if you are looking
for a little bit of coaching help with
your next speech I am providing
one-on-one evaluations my contact email
is in the video description reach out to
me and let's discuss what that could
look like